Thanks for spending time with us
learning about TypeScript fundamentals.
Just to recap what we've covered
since the beginning of the course.
We built a small TypeScript program and
use the TypeScript CLI.
We talked about variables and values,
the differences between let and
const declarations and
started to develop an intuition for
how to think about types as
representing sets of allowed values.
We discussed object, arrays and tuples,
and how tuples could be used in a read
only mode where we get much better
inference when initializing tuples.
We discussed the differences between
structural and nominal type systems.
TypeScript of course is
a structural type system.
And we talked about how type
equivalence is performed in these
different kinds of type systems, and
hopefully this helps bolster your
mental model for how TypeScript works.
We went on to discuss union and
intersection types using a nice Venn
diagram model where we compared
the concepts of what kinds of values
is a type able to accept versus
what assumptions can you make?
What guarantees do you have
about any member of a set.
And we saw there was sort of
an asymmetric relationship there where,
you can be very flexible and
allow a bunch of values, but
then, you sort of have to narrow down
before you can do much because there's
a lot of things that
something could be there.
We talked about interfaces and
type aliases.
We compared and contrasted them and
discussed, open interfaces and
how type aliases are basically
variables for types.
We went through an exercise where
we made types for JSON values,
any allowable JSON value.
And then went on to discuss type queries,
which are ways of obtaining types from
values that we may already have in hand.
We talked about callables and
constructables, call signatures and
construct signatures as
well as function overloads,
which allow us to have multiple function
heads and one function implementation.
We went on to talk about classes,
including static fields,
static blocks, private fields,
which are actually private.
Then we we had a discussion
about type guards and narrowing,
including user defined type guards.
We talked a little bit about how
we could implement type guards in
a nominal way versus a structural way.
Finally, the last topic we
talked about was generics,
which allow us to write parametric types.
Types that are described
in terms of a type param,
which often is something that's inferred
when callers invoke the generic function.
And we talked a little bit about
an exercise we'll leave for
you all to do at home,
writing your own map, filter, and
reduce utility functions which
can operate on dictionaries.
I hope you found this course
interesting and useful.
Please remember that there's an
intermediate TypeScript course that picks
up right where we left off.
So if you'd like to learn
more about TypeScript,
I'll see you in the next course.
[APPLAUSE]